[startled]
What on earth is
Kuro doing here?
[grunt]
[Karin growling]
The way he moves is
so clumsy.
He has little to
no experience
in sports or martial arts,
and yet, he looks
completely unfazed
taking on a monster
like that.
That kind of approach is
so utterly Kuro.
I figured something like
this might happen,
but right now?
The timing of this
couldn't be worse...
[Saki] Hey, you!
What the hell is
the big idea?!
Your monster summons me,
and then, you just bail
on our meeting?
Not to mention that
pervy ghost you left behind!
Ugh!
Why couldn't you have
just waited
at the restaurant?
Say something--! [gasp]
Hurry, we have to save him!
Let things play out.
He will be fine.
For what it's worth,
I'm sure he's even prepared
to have his head smashed in
at least once.
Huh?!
[Kuro grunts]
K...Kuro!
[opening music]
But why is Kuro here?
Get too close,
and you might get caught
in the middle.
Let's just watch
for a bit.
[grunt]
[gasp]
But it looks like he could
go down at any moment.
He's tripping over
his own feet!
Yeah, but it doesn't seem
like Steel Lady Nanase's
that much stronger than he is.
It should be simple.
Especially if Kuro's willing
to take
a steel beam to the face.
Even if he's close to death,
he'll be able to get
right back up in no time at all,
due to the immortality
he gained
by eating mermaid flesh.
[gasp]
[shock]
Huh?!
[wham]
Huh?
[whimper]
What's the matter?
Is this the first time
you've seen Kuro die?
Of course it is.
Really? Then why'd you
break up with him?
I saw a cut on his hand
heal up immediately.
I watched his severed fingers
grow back.
And when it happened,
he acted like there was nothing
strange about it at all.
Well, that's to be expected
with an immortal.
A man in perfect health.
Couldn't she just accept
what a great husband
he'd have made?
That she'd never have
to worry about him
being injured or sick?
No.
The way she's acting now,
I guess not.
[Saki] Is it so strange to
suddenly feel scared
at the thought of
becoming family
with someone like that?
Am I not allowed to
reconsider that marriage?
Dozens of his relatives
have died
of strange illnesses
or unusual causes.
Kuro's the only one of them
who's living a decent life.
[Kotoko] Oh.
Looks like Kuro's back
in action.
[tense music]
Huh?!
If he gets that close,
she'll kill him again!
[beam falling]
[grunt]
He stopped just out of
range of the steel beam's arc.
Kuro and Steel Lady Nanase
look like
they're following
a choreographed routine.
Everything seems calculated.
I can't believe that
he grabbed her so easily...
Well, Steel Lady Nanase
is just wildly swinging
the steel beam
without thinking.
The possibility of something
like this happening
is actually rather high.
And if the odds are good enough
that something will happen,
it's not at all difficult
for Kuro
to set that future in stone.
That's another one of
Kuro's capabilities.
The powers of
the prophet beast,
The Kudan, whose flesh
he ate as well.
The power to determine
the future.
He said he'd never gotten
the chance
to tell Saki everything...
about the secrets of
the Sakuragawas.
[Kotoko] It all started about
ten generations
before Kuro was born,
with the head of
the Sakuragawa family
at that time.
[head of the Sakuragawa]
If your liver is faulty,
consume the liver
of a creature with
a powerful one.
If your eyes give out,
devour the eyes
of a creature with
great vision.
Then it follows,
if you ate the flesh
of a kudan,
you could acquire
its prophetic powers!
If I could look unhindered
into the future,
I could gain an unlimited
amount of wealth!
[Kotoko] The kudan.
A yokai with the head of
a human,
and the body of a cow.
It can speak the language
of men,
and once it predicts
the future, it dies.
Occasionally, it would predict
good futures,
such as a good harvest
or a windfall.
But most of its predictions
would be misfortunes,
and they were always accurate.
He got his hands on
kudan meat and
fed it to several
in his household.
Some died instantly after
having a bad reaction
to the meat.
Some died after being
bedridden for a month.
And others died after
they predicted the future.
They say those predictions
turned out
to be totally accurate.
The head of the clan
continued his experiment.
But even those
who obtained
the yokai's ability
to see the future,
died immediately...
Just like the kudan.
[Sakuragawa head]
I'm so close...
I'm so close, and yet now..
Damn it!
[Kotoko]
And then he realized...
Those with the ability
to predict the future
simply needed to
have immortal bodies.
That's when he started
having those of his line
consume mermaid flesh,
along with the meat
from the kudan.
Yet still, the number
of victims skyrocketed...
and the experiment
he sacrificed so much for
never worked.
Time passed by,
and such nightmarish experiments
were eventually forgotten.
Until...
[Grandma] Kuro.
Grandmother.
Your dinner is waiting
for you.
Okay.
-We are grateful!
[gasp]
Brother?!
[gasping]
What?!
[choking]
Grandmother, the others,
they're...
They're all...
They...!
I think the food
has made them sick!
Yes. And you, Kuro?
You feel completely fine,
do you, my dear?
Any fever? Or nausea?
No, I'm fine...
It's come true!
At long last!
[Kotoko] His grandmother
was still
chasing her ancestor's dream.
She had been secretly
gathering kudan meat
and mermaid flesh.
Grandmother.
All the others are
really suffering.
Please help!
Let's see...
I'd love to know
what the weather will
be like tomorrow.
Huh?
You should be able to
tell me that much, Kuro.
I need you to die once,
and go see...
the future!
[stab]
[Kotoko] And then,
his grandmother,
in her madness,
tried various experiments.
Testing if he was immortal,
and if he could predict
the future,
she cut up his body,
and mortally
wounded him frequently,
until he very nearly stopped
feeling pain almost altogether.
-[Rilla] Kuro...
-Huh?
[Rikka] There are
a lot of fireflies
by the river out back.
Wanna come watch them
with me?
[Kuro] Sure.
Well, come along.
Is something wrong?
Nuh-uh.
It's nothing at all.
[Kotoko] The dream of
the Sakuragawas
had finally come true.
But the abilities obtained
were slightly different
from what they had hoped for.
And while
he's technically human,
he became something inhuman.
[gasp]
[grunt/gasp]
[tense music]
Ah, Kuro...
The way he does something
like that with no hesitation
is one of his charms!
I'm not looking for
a boyfriend who
can snap a ghost's neck.
Now, this is
the real question.
Will this actually be
the end of Steel Lady Nanase?
[startled]
[gasp]
[snap]
Why am I not surprised?
This means, we only have
one option left on the table.
Huh?
All right, Kuro,
that's enough.
We're going to need
a new strategy
to defeat Steel Lady Nanase.
Saki.
What are you doing here,
of all places?
I work as a police officer
for the city.
And what brings
you here, Kuro?
Oh, well...
Obviously,
if your darling girlfriend
asks you to show up,
you'll show up,
even if it means
fighting a monster, right?
[sigh]
Something like that.
Though I had no idea
you'd be here, Saki.
Running into you is
a surprise for me as well.
I, for one,
had no intention of
letting you see each other.
You mean to tell me
she actually is
your girlfriend?
Yes... This weirdo really
is my girlfriend...
Excuse me, Kuro!
Why do you sound like
you hate it?!
Because you're frustrating
as hell.
I'm sorry, Saki.
I'm pretty sure Iwanaga
caused you some trouble.
FYI, Kuro!
I actually saved Saki,
I will have you know!
I don't deserve
this kind of treatment--
Just say you're sorry.
There is no way you didn't
cause any trouble.
Grrr!
Oh, it's all right.
I'm sure we both caused
each other a little trouble.
[Saki] What we should be
worried about right now
is Steel Lady Nanase.
So anyway, it's good
to see you, Kuro.
Yeah. It's good to
see you, too...
Saki.
[jealous]
Let's get out of here now.
Lingering in the light
of a vending machine
for too long is depressing.
We're not moths, you know!
I knew I shouldn't
have let these two
bump into each other.
How did I let this happen?
It's not like
we could've talked about this
at the restaurant.
And I was scared to go
home alone, but still...
Kuro? Are you staring
at your ex-girlfriend
from behind,
while your current girlfriend
is sitting right next to you?
You're delusional.
Nuh-uh, I saw you!
"Oh, she's lost some weight.
I hope she's been
eating right.
I wonder if she looks
like skin and bones now
because of me?
Wow, her hips look
really nice, though."
I can tell that's what
you were thinking.
Quite impressive.
That's exactly what I was...
-[Kuro] just thinking.
-Oh!
Saki is beautiful.
You jerk! How dare you admit
that so quickly?!
And how dare you take
that kind of attitude
after leaving your poor
girlfriend alone
for an entire week?!
Why didn't you reply to
any of the messages I sent you?
Oh, those were from you?
I thought they were
all spam messages.
At least look at me!
You two get along great.
Of course, we do!
Just so you know,
we're usually way
more lovey-dovey!
Saki, I'm curious.
Are you still unable
to eat fish or beef?
I've been working on it
and can eat some.
But my job is
why I lost weight.
I'm sorry.
No, Kuro,
this isn't your fault.
We broke up without
straightening things out.
I thought I'd be more
shaken up if I saw him.
I wonder if the reason
I'm staying calm
is because of her.
Well, so anyway,
back to the matter at hand.
That said, she's still
pretty intolerable...
Yes, you are right.
So Kuro, were you really
fighting Steel Lady Nanase
on direct orders
from Iwanaga?
Oh, uh...
I did come
to Makurazaka City
because she asked me to,
but I'd just happened to run
into Steel Lady Nanase.
When I got to the station
a goblin cat that had been
attacked by Steel Lady Nanase
asked for help.
Most of these creatures
would usually go
out of their way to
avoid running into me,
but after spending
so much time with Iwanaga,
they started to see me as
someone they could rely on,
in place of their one-eyed
one-legged lady,
the yokai sought me out,
and started asking for
my help, as well.
There was no time to
contact Iwanaga beforehand,
so I went to where
Steel Lady Nanase
appeared by myself.
Oh, well, that sounds nice.
Maybe the kappa won't run away
from you
next time you see him then.
Them coming to me all
the time isn't much better.
But that said,
Steel Lady Nanase wasn't afraid
when she saw me.
Well, to yokai,
Kuro does look like
a horrifying evil jumbled mess
of a creature,
that's an unsightly mix of
a human, mermaid, and kudan
to any non-humans unfortunate
enough to look upon him.
It makes sense
they'd be scared.
Basically, even the monsters
consider him a monster.
Huh?
So tell me, Iwanaga...
if Steel Lady Nanase didn't
react to Kuro that way,
what does that make her?
She's a monster.
I could see that.
I'll rephrase.
Is she something
we can defeat?
She is.
The reason that I wanted
to meet with you tonight
was to discuss that.
Steel Lady Nanase is different
from a normal spectre.
She was created from
the delusions and desires
of modern-day humans.
A monster of the imagination.
I hadn't planned to
tell her everything,
but at this point,
I'll tell her as much
of the truth as I can
so she can start to
comprehend
how vastly different
our world is
from the one
she lives in every day.
I'll show her how radically
different we are
from what she knows.
That's the best plan.
The traditional yokai,
monsters, spectres, mononoke,
and beasts from urban legend,
the ones we're familiar with
have monsters of
the imagination.
It may all start off
as something trivial.
Like somebody says...
A super creepy pale lady
wearing a mask
came up to me,
but she was so frightening
I just ran away.
That's how
the story would start.
And then, what happened?
But the story on its own
isn't very interesting, so...
Uh, when I took
a closer look,
I realized her mouth was
split open under the mask.
I got so scared I ran away,
and she came running
after me
s fast as she could!
Whoa, that's super creepy!
And now, a lie has been
added to the story.
And before long,
that story starts to spread.
[male voice] A pale woman
wearing a mask...
[female voice] ...asked,
"Do you think I'm pretty?"
[male voice] But under
the mask, her mouth was...
[female voice] But under
[Kotoko] For now, this is all
still just a story.
It only becomes a problem
when this fiction
is given a name.
The slit-mouth woman.
They give that story
a single name,
which manages to generally
describe
what it ends up looking like.
That weaves together
all the various strands
of vague rumors
finally solidifying them
into a uniform image.
Hmm...
At first,
it was just make-believe.
But now, that the fiction
has a name and a shape,
it implants itself into
the minds of thousands,
tens of thousands,
perhaps even millions
of people's minds,
which in turn gives it
flesh and blood,
turning it into
something real.
People's imaginations manage
to create a monster.
Do you honestly expect
anyone to believe
this happens every day?
You ask that after seeing
a kappa and a ghost?
Under normal circumstances,
monsters of the imagination
are nothing to be afraid of.
Their popularity wanes,
and even if they gain
a form, it's weak.
And usually,
they disappear soon afterward.
The slit-mouth woman
disappeared,
as did the human-faced dog.
[Saki] In that case,
Steel Lady Nanase
seems rather different
from the other monsters
of the imagination...
This monster's been given
the name "Steel Lady Nanase."
And yet she's so powerful.
[Kotoko] Yes, precisely.
Hmm?
How did this thing manage
to gain a form
less than a year after
Karin Nanase's death
and then, become as
powerful as it is?
There is, in fact,
a way to make that possible.
Usually, these monster rumors
take time to spread.
So what can spread
these ideas instantly,
where countless eyes
can see them?
Only certain media outlets
even bothered
reporting the accident.
Seems like it was only really
popular on the Internet...
[gasp]
Right. The culprit
is the Internet.
[kotoko] The Internet can relay
information
all around the world
in an instant,
and billions of people
have access to it.
And it's able to gather
and consolidate
an immeasurable amount of
varying ideas in one place.
In one place?
I see,
like that Steel Lady Nanase
wiki page I found?
So you know of it.
That'll definitely
make this easier.
That site is
the reason her name
and description are
so well defined,
and why it spread at
such an alarming rate.
And with the illustration
of her
on the top page of the wiki...
That gave her a form
that's difficult to attain
from rumors alone,
defining her look
in an instant.
That drawing of her.
You remember?
Mmhmm.
Don't you think
the Steel Lady on that page
looked like the one we saw
down to the finest detail?
Now that you mention it, yes.
So what?
Do you think it's possible
to illustrate a spectre
made up entirely of rumors?
And to do so precisely,
without eyewitnesses?
That's quite improbable.
Thus, the opposite happened.
How so?
[Kotoko] The image in that
drawing wasn't modeled
after the ghost.
But because so many people
saw that illustration,
they imagined
Steel Lady Nanase
actually looked like that.
So it was the form
the spirit took.
Huh?
It's backwards.
The wiki wasn't created
because there was
an actual ghost.
Instead, the ghost was born
because the wiki was created.
You could call this website
the true source of
the Steel Lady Nanase
phenomenon.
[ending music]
Steel Lady Nanase
maintains her immortal form
thanks to
many people's imaginations.
To defeat her,
we must create a tale
that'll surpass
an actual story of a spectre.
What we need to face her
head-on is...
Next time,
"Logical Fiction."